So what are the differences between files object from
JavaOne and paths object from Java 7? Well,
the first biggest difference is that file is a
class, whereas path is an interface.
It means that for each file system,
for each type of filesystem that there exists,
I can have a different implementation of this path interface.
And indeed, it is the case.
The implementation for a Windows file system is not the
same as the one for Linux file system, for instance.
Since a file is created on a string,
it's just a wrapper on a string that represents a path on a filesystem.
It is independent on any file system. And indeed,
a file does not know anything about the file system it describes a file on,
for instance. Whereas Java 7 introduces a file system class
with file system objects, and the path is necessarily linked
to an explicit file system.
If you do not tell the system which file system you're
going to use when you create a path,
this system will give you a path linked to your default file systems, which is most of the time the case.